ISO 27001:2022 - Information Security Management Systems

1 Scope

This document specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and
continually improving an information security management system within the context of the
organization. This document also includes requirements for the assessment and treatment
of information security risks tailored to the needs of the organization.

2 Normative References

The following documents are referred to in the text in such a way that some or all of their
content constitutes requirements of this document. For dated references, only the edition
cited applies.

ISO/IEC 27000, Information technology - Security techniques - Information security
management systems - Overview and vocabulary.

3 Terms and Definitions

For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply.

Information security: preservation of confidentiality, integrity and availability of information; may also involve other properties such as authenticity, accountability, non-repudiation and reliability

Information security incident: one or more unwanted or unexpected information security events that have a significant probability of compromising business operations and threatening information security

Information security event: an identified occurrence of a system, service or network state indicating a possible breach of information security policy or failure of controls

Risk: effect of uncertainty on objectives

Threat: potential cause of an unwanted incident which may result in harm to a system or organization

Vulnerability: weakness of an asset or control that can be exploited by one or more threats

Privileged access: access rights that allow users to override system or application controls, including administrative accounts, root accounts, and service accounts with elevated permissions

4 Context of the Organization

4.1 Understanding the Organization and Its Context

The organization shall determine external and internal issues that are relevant to its purpose
and that affect its ability to achieve the intended outcome(s) of its information security
management system.

4.2 Understanding the Needs and Expectations of Interested Parties

The organization shall determine interested parties that are relevant to the information
security management system and the requirements of these interested parties relevant to
information security.

4.3 Determining the Scope of the ISMS

The organization shall determine the boundaries and applicability of the information security
management system to establish its scope.

5 Leadership

5.1 Leadership and Commitment

Top management shall demonstrate leadership and commitment with respect to the information
security management system by ensuring the information security policy and objectives are
established and compatible with the strategic direction of the organization.

5.2 Policy

Top management shall establish an information security policy that is appropriate to the
purpose of the organization, includes information security objectives or provides a framework
for setting information security objectives, and includes a commitment to satisfy applicable
requirements and to continual improvement.

5.3 Organizational Roles, Responsibilities and Authorities

Top management shall ensure that the responsibilities and authorities for roles relevant to
information security are assigned and communicated.

6 Planning

6.1 Actions to Address Risks and Opportunities

6.1.1 General

When planning for the information security management system, the organization shall
consider the issues referred to in clause 4.1 and the requirements referred to in clause 4.2
and determine the risks and opportunities that need to be addressed.

6.1.2 Information Security Risk Assessment

The organization shall define and apply an information security risk assessment process.

6.1.3 Information Security Risk Treatment

The organization shall define and apply an information security risk treatment process.

6.2 Information Security Objectives and Planning to Achieve Them

The organization shall establish information security objectives at relevant functions and levels.

7 Support

7.1 Resources

The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for the establishment,
implementation, maintenance and continual improvement of the information security
management system.

7.2 Competence

The organization shall determine the necessary competence of persons doing work under its
control that affects its information security performance.

7.3 Awareness

Persons doing work under the organization's control shall be aware of the information
security policy and their contribution to the effectiveness of the ISMS.

7.4 Communication

The organization shall determine the need for internal and external communications relevant
to the information security management system.

7.5 Documented Information

7.5.1 General

The organization's information security management system shall include documented
information required by this document and documented information determined by the
organization as being necessary for the effectiveness of the ISMS.

7.5.2 Creating and Updating

When creating and updating documented information, the organization shall ensure appropriate
format and media and review and approval for suitability and adequacy.

7.5.3 Control of Documented Information

Documented information required by the ISMS and by this document shall be controlled to
ensure it is available and suitable for use, where and when it is needed.

8 Operation

8.1 Operational Planning and Control

The organization shall plan, implement, control, evaluate and maintain the processes needed
to meet information security requirements.

8.2 Information Security Risk Assessment

The organization shall perform information security risk assessments at planned intervals or
when significant changes are proposed or occur.

8.3 Information Security Risk Treatment

The organization shall implement the information security risk treatment plan.

9 Performance Evaluation

9.1 Monitoring, Measurement, Analysis and Evaluation

The organization shall evaluate the information security performance and the effectiveness
of the information security management system.

9.2 Internal Audit

9.2.1 General

The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to provide information on
whether the ISMS conforms to the organization's own requirements and the requirements of
this document.

9.2.2 Internal Audit Programme

The organization shall plan, establish, implement and maintain an audit programme.

9.3 Management Review

9.3.1 General

Top management shall review the organization's information security management system
at planned intervals to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.

9.3.2 Management Review Inputs

The management review shall include consideration of the status of actions from previous
management reviews and changes in external and internal issues.

9.3.3 Management Review Results

The results of the management review shall include decisions related to continual improvement
opportunities and any need for changes to the ISMS.

10 Improvement

10.1 Continual Improvement

The organization shall continually improve the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the
information security management system.

10.2 Nonconformity and Corrective Action

When a nonconformity occurs, the organization shall react to the nonconformity and take
action to control and correct it, deal with the consequences, and determine if similar
nonconformities exist or could potentially occur.
